Fusion environment variables (#8461)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/fusion/install-fusion-cli.md

# Install Fusion from the CLI <Lifecycle status="preview" />

> Fusion can be installed via the command line from our official content delivery network (CDN). <Constant name="fusion"/> CLI delivers <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> performance benefits (faster parsing, compilation, execution) but does not include <Term id="lsp" /> features. To experience <Constant name="fusion"/>'s engine performance _and_ <Term id="lsp"/> features, [install the dbt VS Code extension](/docs/install-dbt-extension). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fusion can be installed via the command line from our official content delivery network (CDN). <Constant name="fusion"/> CLI delivers <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> performance benefits (faster parsing, compilation, execution) but does not include <Term id="lsp" /> features. For the best <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> experience, [install the dbt VS Code extension](/docs/install-dbt-extension) in your VS Code or compatible IDE. 
```

The Fusion install automatically includes adapters outlined in the [Fusion requirements](/docs/fusion/supported-features#requirements). Other adapters will be available at a later date.

## Environment variables

> <Constant name="fusion"/> automatically loads environment variables from a `.env` file in your current working directory (the folder you `cd` into and run commands from in your terminal). This helps you manage credentials and settings without hardcoding them in your `profiles.yml` or exposing them in your shell history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Constant name="fusion"/> automatically loads environment variables from a `.env` file in your current working directory (the folder you `cd` into and run dbt commands from in your terminal). This helps you manage credentials and settings without hardcoding them in your `profiles.yml` or exposing them in your shell history.
```

> ### Using `.env` files

Reviewer: Is there a scenario where they would have multiple or should we singularize this?
```suggestion
### Using a `.env` file
```

Author: you can i think but youre right, keeping it singular is prob better

1. Create a `.env` file in your current working directory (typically at the root of your dbt project):
   ```env
   DBT_MY_DATABASE=my_database
   DBT_MY_SCHEMA=my_schema
   DBT_SECRET_KEY=my_secret_value
   ```

2. Reference these variables in your `profiles.yml` using the [`env_var` Jinja function](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/env_var):
   ```yaml
   my_profile:
     target: dev
     outputs:
       dev:
         type: snowflake
         account: my_account
         database: "{{ env_var('DBT_MY_DATABASE') }}"
         schema: "{{ env_var('DBT_MY_SCHEMA') }}"
   ```

3. Run dbt commands normally. <Constant name="fusion"/> will automatically load the variables from the `.env` file. For example, running `dbtf debug` will show your connection using the values from `.env`:
   ```shell
   dbtf debug
   ...
   Debugging connection:
   "authenticator": "my_authenticator",
   "account": "my_account",
   "user": "my_user",
   "database": "my_database",        # Loaded from DBT_MY_DATABASE in .env
   "schema": "my_schema",            # Loaded from DBT_MY_SCHEMA in .env
   ```

:::note

> The `.env` file is loaded _only_ from your current working directory. It doesn't support the `--project-dir` flag or `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` environment variable and doesn't walk up to find your dbt project root. For best results, keep your `.env` file in your project root and run commands from there.

Reviewer: Same sugg as further up
```suggestion
We recommend placing your `.env` file in the project root and running dbt commands from that location because the file is loaded _only_ from your current working directory. It doesn't support the `--project-dir` flag or `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` environment variable, and dbt won't search your project root if you're running commands from a different directory location.
```

:::

### Precedence order

When the same environment variable is defined in multiple places, <Constant name="fusion"/> uses the following precedence order (highest to lowest):

1. Shell environment &mdash; Variables set directly in your shell (for example, `export DBT_MY_VAR=value`)
2. `.env` file &mdash; Variables defined in the `.env` file in your current working directory

> This means shell environment variables always override values from the `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means environment variables set in your shell always override values from the `.env` file.
```
